collaborative_working_with_Git.md, before:

﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿#  collaborative working with Git### **Git Vs GitHub:****Git:**- Git is the command line version control system (VCS) software which works on your local computer.- You need Git to use GitHub. You can use Git locally without GitHub.**Installation of Git :**- If you have already installed Git on your computer. Well and good, you can proceed to the next section.- If not, You can download it from:[Here ]( https://git-scm.com/downloads).- If you want some help on installation, find it: [Here ](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)**GitHub:**- GitHub is an internet hosting service for git repositories. Public repos are free; private repos are paid.- You can keep your project files in organized way that you haven’t imagined before and you can also work in a project with multiple people working on the same at a time. **Set-up GitHub:**- [Click Here](https://github.com/join) to sign up on GitHub with your Email If you have one allready, you can use it. Log in to your account.###  **Repository:**- A repository is like a folder for your project. Your project's repository contains all of your project's files and stores each file's revision history. You can also discuss and manage your project's work within the repository.

Commit message:

Task: added steps for create new repo

collaborative_working_with_Git.md, after:

﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿#  collaborative working with Git### **Git Vs GitHub:****Git:**- Git is the command line version control system (VCS) software which works on your local computer.- You need Git to use GitHub. You can use Git locally without GitHub.**Installation of Git :**- If you have already installed Git on your computer. Well and good, you can proceed to the next section.- If not, You can download it from:[Here ]( https://git-scm.com/downloads).- If you want some help on installation, find it: [Here ](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)**GitHub:**- GitHub is an internet hosting service for git repositories. Public repos are free; private repos are paid.- You can keep your project files in organized way that you haven’t imagined before and you can also work in a project with multiple people working on the same at a time. **Set-up GitHub:**- [Click Here](https://github.com/join) to sign up on GitHub with your Email If you have one allready, you can use it. Log in to your account.###  **Repository:**- A repository is like a folder for your project. Your project's repository contains all of your project's files and stores each file's revision history. You can also discuss and manage your project's work within the repository.**Follow steps for creating New Repository**.1. Go to the homepage of GitHub to see the following screen.3. At the right top, you have this + icon, clicking on it will open up drop-down window.    4. You have to click on “New repository” to create a new Repository. 6. Fill  basic details like the Repository name like give it a nice name. Remember, it’s your first project! Name it the way you like. When you are creating an repository for Your team where you want to keep your project public or private, Here we set up the Public.9. Select checkbox **Initialize this repository with a README**  and select **Add.gitignore: Python** and **Add a license: MIT License**11. Click on “Create repository” successfully create your new repo.
