git_commands.md, before:

﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿# Introduction to GIT### GitflowGitflow Workflow is a Git workflow design that was first published and made popular by Vincent Driessen at nvie. The Gitflow Workflow defines a strict branching model designed around the project release. This provides a robust framework for managing larger projects. Gitflow is ideally suited for projects that have a scheduled release cycle. This workflow doesn’t add any new concepts or commands beyond what’s required for the Feature Branch Workflow. Instead, it assigns very specific roles to different branches and defines how and when they should interact. ### Git RepositoryA Git repository is a virtual storage of your project. It allows you to save versions of your code, which you can access when needed. #####Initializing a new repository: git initTo create a new repo, you'll use the git init command. git init is a one-time command you use during the initial setup of a new repo. Executing this command will create a new .git subdirectory in your current working directory. This will also create a new master branch. #####Usage1.  Create a project folder that you would like to create a repo within. You'll first cd to the root project folder and then execute the git init command. Command:  git init 2. Transform the current directory into a Git repository. This adds a .git subdirectory to the current directory and makes it possible to start recording revisions of the project Command:  git init <directory>

Commit message:

feature:added definition of Git Clone

git_commands.md, after:

﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿# Introduction to GIT### GitflowGitflow Workflow is a Git workflow design that was first published and made popular by Vincent Driessen at nvie. The Gitflow Workflow defines a strict branching model designed around the project release. This provides a robust framework for managing larger projects. Gitflow is ideally suited for projects that have a scheduled release cycle. This workflow doesn’t add any new concepts or commands beyond what’s required for the Feature Branch Workflow. Instead, it assigns very specific roles to different branches and defines how and when they should interact. ### Git RepositoryA Git repository is a virtual storage of your project. It allows you to save versions of your code, which you can access when needed. #####Initializing a new repository: git initTo create a new repo, you'll use the git init command. git init is a one-time command you use during the initial setup of a new repo. Executing this command will create a new .git subdirectory in your current working directory. This will also create a new master branch. #####Usage1.  Create a project folder that you would like to create a repo within. You'll first cd to the root project folder and then execute the git init command. Command:  git init 2. Transform the current directory into a Git repository. This adds a .git subdirectory to the current directory and makes it possible to start recording revisions of the project Command:  git init <directory> ### Git Clonegit clone is a Git command line utility which is used to target an existing repository and create a clone, or copy of the target repository. git clone is primarily used to point to an existing repo and make a clone or copy of that repo at in a new directory, at another location. The original repository can be located on the local filesystem or on remote machine accessible supported protocols. Command: git clone <url>$ git clone https://github.com/hs434/mini_project_1_hrk.git
