﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿# Introduction to GIT### GitflowGitflow Workflow is a Git workflow design that was first published and made popular by Vincent Driessen at nvie. The Gitflow Workflow defines a strict branching model designed around the project release. This provides a robust framework for managing larger projects. Gitflow is ideally suited for projects that have a scheduled release cycle. This workflow doesn’t add any new concepts or commands beyond what’s required for the Feature Branch Workflow. Instead, it assigns very specific roles to different branches and defines how and when they should interact. ### Git RepositoryA Git repository is a virtual storage of your project. It allows you to save versions of your code, which you can access when needed. #####Initializing a new repository: git initTo create a new repo, you'll use the git init command. git init is a one-time command you use during the initial setup of a new repo. Executing this command will create a new .git subdirectory in your current working directory. This will also create a new master branch. #####Usage1.  Create a project folder that you would like to create a repo within. You'll first cd to the root project folder and then execute the git init command. Command:  git init 2. Transform the current directory into a Git repository. This adds a .git subdirectory to the current directory and makes it possible to start recording revisions of the project Command:  git init <directory> ### Git Clonegit clone is a Git command line utility which is used to target an existing repository and create a clone, or copy of the target repository. git clone is primarily used to point to an existing repo and make a clone or copy of that repo at in a new directory, at another location. The original repository can be located on the local filesystem or on remote machine accessible supported protocols. Command: git clone <url>$ git clone https://github.com/hs434/mini_project_1_hrk.git### ForkA fork is a copy of a repository. Forking a repository allows you to freely experiment with changes without affecting the original project. Forks are used to either propose changes to someone else's project or to use someone else's project as a starting point for your own idea. Instead of using a single server-side repository to act as the “central” codebase, it gives every developer their own server-side repository.The main advantage of the Forking Workflow is that contributions can be integrated without the need for everybody to push to a single central repository. Developers push to their own server-side repositories, and only the project maintainer can push to the official repository. This allows the maintainer to accept commits from any developer without giving them write access to the official codebase.#####Propose changes to someone else's projectA great example of using forks to propose changes is for bug fixes. Rather than logging an issue for a bug you've found, you can:- Fork the repository.- Make the fix.- Submit a pull request to the project owner.If the project owner likes your work, they might pull your fix into the original repository.### Git BranchA Git branch is essentially an independent line of development. You can take advantage of branching when working on new features or bug fixes because it isolates your work from that of other team members. The "branch" command helps you create, delete, and list branches.Different branches can be merged into any one branch as long as they belong to the same repository.Command: git branch <branch name>###Git CommitThe "commit" command is used to save your changes to the local repository. It captures a snapshot of the project's currently staged changes. Committed snapshots can be thought of as “safe” versions of a project—Git will never change them unless you explicitly ask it to. Prior to the execution of git commit, The **git add** command is used to promote or 'stage' changes to the project that will be stored in a commit. #####Important Options **-m <message>**  Sets the commit's message. Make sure to provide a concise description that helps your teammates (and yourself) understand what happened.Command: git commit -m "commit message"**-a**  Includes all currently changed files in this commit. Keep in mind, however, that untracked (new) files are not included.Command: git commit -a**--amend**  Rewrites the very last commit with any currently staged changes and/or a new commit message. Git will rewrite the last commit and effectively replace it with the amended one. Note that such a rewriting of commits should only be performed on commits that have not been pushed to a remote repository, yet.Command: git commit --amend###Git MergeThe git merge command lets you take the independent lines of development created by git branch and integrate them into a single branch. git merge is used to combine two branchesCommand: git merge <branch name> ###Git CheckoutA Checkout is the act of switching between different versions of a target entity. The git checkout command switches between branches or restores working tree files. The git checkout command operates upon three distinct entities: files, commits, and branches. Checking out branches is similar to checking out old commits and files in that the working directory is updated to match the selected branch/revision; however, new changes are saved in the project history—that is, it’s not a read-only operation.#####Important Options- To checkout a specific commit  Command: git checkout specific-commit-id- To checkout an existing branch,   Command: git checkout <branch name>- To create and checkout out a new branch with a single command   Command: git checkout -b <new branch name>- Undo Changes in your Working Directory: You can use the git checkout command to undo changes you’ve made  to a file in your working directory.    Command: git checkout -- FILE-NAME###Git PushThe git push command is used to upload local repository content to a remote repository. Pushing is how you transfer commits from your local repository to a remote repo. Pushing has the potential to overwrite changes, caution should be taken when pushing. To be able to push to your remote repository, you must ensure that all your changes to the local repository are committed.REMOTE-NAME is the name of the remote repository to which you want to push the changes toBRANCH-NAME is the name of the remote branch you want to push your changes to#####Important Options- Push to a Specific Remote Repository and Branch: In order to push code, you must first clone a repository to your local machine   Command: git push <repo name> <branch name> - Push to a Specific Remote Repository and All Branches in it. If you want to push all your changes to the remote repository and all branches in it  Command: git push --all <remote name>  - Push to a specific branch with force parameter: If you want to ignore the local changes made to Git repository at Github then you can use force command to push by ignoring those changes.  Command: git push --force <remote name> <branch name>  - Push ignoring Git’s pre-push hook  Command: git push --no-verify   ###Git PullThe git pull command is used to fetch and download content from a remote repository and immediately update the local repository to match that content. The git pull command is actually a combination of two other commands, git fetch followed by git merge. In the first stage of operation git pull will execute a git fetch scoped to the local branch that HEAD is pointed at. Once the content is downloaded, git pull will enter a merge workflow. A new merge commit will be-created and HEAD updated to point at the new commit.#####Important Options- <remote>: Fetch the specified remote’s copy of the current branch and immediately merge it into the local copy   Command: git pull <remote>- --no-commit perform the merge and stop just before creating a merge commit, to give the user a chance to inspect and further tweak the merge result before committing.   Command: git pull --no-commit <remote>- --<rebase>: This simply moves your local changes onto the top of what everybody else has already contributed.   Command: git pull --rebase <remote>###Git Remote(Show, Add, Remove) The "remote" command helps you to manage connections to remote repositories.It allows you to show which remotes are currently connected, but also to add new connections or remove existing ones.#####Important Options- --v Shows URLs of remote repositories when listing your current remote connections. By default, listing remote repositories only shows you their shortnames (e.g. "origin"). Using the "-v" option, you will also see the remote's URLs in listings. Command:  git remote -v- Creates a new connection to a remote repository. The "shortname" you provide can later be used instead of the URL when referencing the remote. A typical default shortname is "origin": this is used for the remote which your local repository was cloned from. Command: add <shortname> <url>- Disconnects the remote from the local repository. Note that this will have no effect on the actual remote repository (i.e. the repository itself is not removed / deleted / etc.). Command: remove <name>