﻿﻿﻿﻿#ClassA class is a code template for creating objects. Objects have member variables and have behavior associated with them. In python a class is created by the keyword class.An object is created using the constructor of the class. This object will then be called the instance of the class. In Python we create instances in the following mannerInstance = class(arguments)###How to create a classThe simplest class can be created using the class keyword. For example, let's create a simple, empty class with no functionalities.class Building:      passbuilding = Building() print(building)_____main_____.Snake object at 0x7f315c573550>###Attributes and Methods in class:A class by itself is of no use unless there is some functionality associated with it. Functionalities are defined by setting attributes, which act as containers for data and functions related to those attributes. Those functions are called methods.###1. Attributes:You can define the following class with the name Building. This class will have an attribute name. class Building:       name = "python" # set an attribute `name` of the classYou can assign the class to a variable. This is called ***object instantiation***. You will then be able to access the attributes that are present inside the class using the*** dot . operator***.***Example***In the Building example, you can access the attribute name of the class Building.Instantiate the class Building and assign it to variable building>>> building = Building() # access the class attribute name inside the class Building.>>> print(building.name)###2. Methods:Once there are attributes that “belong” to the class, you can define functions that will access the class attribute. These functions are called methods. When you define methods, you will need to always provide the first argument to the method with a self keyword.***Example***Define a class Building, which has one attribute name and one method change_name. The method change name will take in an argument new_name along with the keyword self. class Building:       name = "python"       def change_name(self, new_name): # note that the first argument is self             self.name = new_name # access the class attribute with the self keywordNow, you can instantiate this class Building with a variable building and then change the name with the method change_name. instantiate the class building = Building() # print the current object name  print(building.name)python # change the name using the change_name method building.change_name("office") print(building.name)office###References:https://www.hackerearth.com/practice/python/object-oriented-programming/classes-and-objects-i/tutorial/