# Don't Repeat YourselfDon't repeat yourself (DRY) is a principle of software development aimed at reducing repetition of software patterns, replacing it with abstractions or using data normalization to avoid redundancy.The DRY principle is stated as "Every piece of knowledge must have a single, unambiguous, authoritative representation within a system". The principle has been formulated by Andy Hunt and Dave Thomas in their book The Pragmatic Programmer.They apply it quite broadly to include "database schemas, test plans, the build system, even documentation".When the DRY principle is applied successfully, a modification of any single element of a system does not require a change in other logically unrelated elements. Additionally, elements that are logically related all change predictably and uniformly, and are thus kept in sync. Besides using methods and subroutines in their code, Thomas and Hunt rely on code generators, automatic build systems, and scripting languages to observe the DRY principle across layers.***Example***, 
In a mixed-language CORBA environment you may choose to treat the IDL definitions as authoritative. These definitions will be used to automatically generate source code files which duplicate the knowledge in the IDL. But that's okay: the IDL form of the knowledge meets the requirements of our definition.Where different levels of abstraction are involved, a consistent conflict-resolution scheme must be used. This could be as simple as identifying one level as authoritative in all cases, or always deferring to the high level, or whatever, as long as it is consistently applied.### References
- [http://wiki.c2.com/?DontRepeatYourself](http://wiki.c2.com/?DontRepeatYourself)