﻿#How Python uses Indentation to Control FlowPython programs get structured through indentation, i.e. code blocks are defined by their indentation. Python has a language requirement not a matter of style. This principle makes it easier to read and understand other people's Python code.A code block (body of a function, loop etc.) starts with indentation and ends with the first unindented line. The amount of indentation is up to you, but it must be consistent throughout that block.All statements with the same distance to the right belong to the same block of code, i.e. the statements within a block line up vertically. The block ends at a line less indented or the end of the file. If a block has to be more deeply nested, it is simply indented further to the right. Generally four whitespaces are used for indentation and is preferred over tabs. Here is an example.###Examplefor i in range(1,11):    print(i)    if i == 5:        breakLoops and Conditional statements end with a colon ":" - the same is true for functions and other structures introducing blocks. So, we should have said Python structures by colons and indentation.###Control Flow**1. IF statement**Decision making is required when we want to execute a code only if a certain condition is satisfied.The if…elif…else statement is used in Python for decision making.**Syntax of if Statement**if test expression:    statement(s)Here, the program evaluates the test expression and will execute statement(s) only if the text expression is True.If the text expression is False, the statement(s) is not executed.Python interprets non-zero values as True. None and 0 are interpreted as False.###Example**If the number is positive, we print an appropriate message**num = 3if num > 0:    print(num, "is a positive number.")print("This is always printed.")num = -1if num > 0:    print(num, "is a positive number.")print("This is also always printed.")**2. for Loop**The for loop in Python is used to iterate over a sequence (list, tuple, string) or other iterable objects. Iterating over a sequence is called traversal.**Syntax of for Loop**for val in sequence:	Body of forHere, val is the variable that takes the value of the item inside the sequence on each iteration.Loop continues until we reach the last item in the sequence. The body of for loop is separated from the rest of the code using indentation.###Example**Program to find the sum of all numbers stored in a list**numbers = [6, 5, 3, 8, 4, 2, 5, 4, 11]sum = 0for val in numbers:	sum = sum+val-- Output: The sum is 48print("The sum is", sum)**3. while loop**The while loop in Python is used to iterate over a block of code as long as the test expression (condition) is true.We generally use this loop when we don't know beforehand, the number of times to iterate.**Syntax of while Loop**while test_expression:    Body of whileIn while loop, test expression is checked first. The body of the loop is entered only if the test_expression evaluates to True. After one iteration, the test expression is checked again. This process continues until the test_expression evaluates to False. Body starts with indentation and the first unindented line marks the end. Python interprets any non-zero value as True. None and 0 are interpreted as False.###Example**Program to add natural numbers upto   sum = 1+2+3+...+n**To take input from the user,n = int(input("Enter n: ")) n = 10sum = 0i = 1while i <= n:    sum = sum + I    i = i+1    # update counterprint("The sum is", sum)###References:https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/